---
title: Primary 1 First Day of School
permalink: /highlights/2024/first-day-of-school/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: "2024"
---
<p>The sun cast its early light over Blangah Rise Primary School on 2 January 2024, signaling the arrival of a momentous day—the first day of Primary 1 for many young hearts. Nervous excitement filled the air as children, accompanied by their eager parents, made their way to the school hall. In the bustling hallways, our teachers stood ready, welcoming our young P1 students to their new classrooms. The flag raising ceremony commenced in classrooms, fostering a sense of unity and pride.</p><p>As the morning progressed, Mr. Samuel Ooi, Head of CCE Department, orchestrated a captivating 7 Habits workshop for parents. His engaging approach included a family card game, designed to instill virtues that could be practiced and discussed within the home. Parents eagerly participated, immersing themselves in the interactive session and forming parent support networks within each P1 class. Through the game, they delved into discussions about fostering positive habits and virtues in their children's lives. Laughter and animated conversations filled the air, creating a bond among the parents. Parents left the workshop feeling empowered, equipped with practical tools to nurture these habits within their families. Parents also penned a note of encouragement to their child.</p><p><em>“Primary school is a new chapter in your life and it’s normal to feel a little nervous sometimes. Believe in yourself and your abilities. Make new friends! You are loved and supported by Daddy and Mummy!” – A note from a parent from 1 Sapphire.</em></p><p>Our parents also had an opportunity to embark on a school tour led by enthusiastic facilitators. During the tour, they experienced the bustling canteen to the tranquil gardens, exploring the animal corner, libraries, computer labs and art galleries. Each stop along the way was meticulously curated to showcase the diverse facets of the school's educational offerings. The school tour left the parents enthused and reassured, knowing their child's new education home is a place where growth is embraced at every turn.</p><p>In the cozy confines of their new classrooms, the P1 students begun their first day with an engaging Self-Management Skills lesson. Under the guidance of their Form Teachers (FTs), they were encouraged to introduce themselves to their teachers and peers, fostering an environment of familiarity and camaraderie and supported their transition into formal schooling. As the morning unfolded, the FTs meticulously set in place the basic routines for recess. They laid the groundwork for the little ones, ensuring they understood the procedures and etiquette for this pivotal part of their school day henceforth.</p><p>Throughout the morning and into the afternoon, the focus remained steadfast on nurturing a positive learning environment and empowering the young ones with the tools they needed to navigate their new school life confidently.</p><p></p><p></p>